# [Vue 3 Reactivity](https://www.vuemastery.com/courses/vue-3-reactivity/vue3-reactivity/)

## Q & A with Evan You

After learning how reactivity was written in Vue 2 and then in Vue 3 I was left with a couple of questions. Luckily, I had an opportunity to sit down with Evan You, the author of Vue, and ask him in person.

Questions we cover include:

- In Vue 2 Reactivity we used depend and notify for recording and playing back effects, and in Vue 3 we use track and trigger, why the change?

The bigger difference is when you name them depend and notify, depend and notify are verbs that is related to an owner, and that owner is a dependency instance. So you say a dependency instance is being depended upon or it is notifying the subscribers.

Whereas, in Vue3, we change to the implementation of dependency a bit. There's no longer a dependency class. And the logic inside the dependency notifier now extracted into just two stand-alone functions.

They are more like tracking something instead of something being depended on

- In Vue 2 Reactivity Dep is a class with subscribers, and in Vue 3 dep is simply a Set. Why the change?

vue2

```javaScript
class Dep {
    constructor() {
        this.subscribers = [];
    }

    depend() {
        if (target && !this.subscribers.includes(target)) {
            this.subscribers.push(target)
        }
    }

    notify() {
        this.subscribers.forEach(sub => sub())
    }
}
```

vue3

```javaScript
let dep = new Set()
```

As we extract to two stand-alone functions, then the class itself is only left with a set.

- How did you end up with the effect storage solution in Vue 3? i.e. targetMap and depsMap

In Vue2, when we were using the ES5 getter and setter conversions, when you iterate through the keys on an object, and with foreach, you have a little closure to store the associdated Dep for their property.

In Vue3, we're using proxies, and the proxy handler,it receives the target and the key directly, and you don't really get a closure for every property to store the associate dependency.

So, we need a way to given a target object and a key on that object, how do we manage to always locate the same dependency instance.

The only way to do that is to put them into two levels of nested map (targetMap, depsMap).

- Why use Object Accessors with ref rather than just re-using reactive?

```javaScript
function ref(initialValue) {
    return reactive({value: initialValue})
}
```

vs

```javaScript
function ref(raw) {
    const r = {
        get value() {
            track(r, 'value')
            return raw
        },

        set value(newVal) {
            raw = newVal
            trigger(r, 'value')
        },
    }
    return r
}
```

The first thing is a ref, by definition, should only expose a single property, that is value itself.
if you use reactive, you can attach new properties to it, and that kind of defeats the purpose of a ref.

So refs should only serve the purpose of wrapping an inner value, it should not be treated as a generic reactive object.

The other thing is, we also have is ref check, the return of ref object actually has some special theme, so that we know it is actually a ref instead of a reactive object.

Finally, there's also performance concerning here, because reactive does a lot more than just what we were doing in the ref. For example, when you try to create a reactive object, we have to check whether it was already has a crest on the reactive copy of it, if it has a read-only copy of it. There is a lot of extra wokr you have to go through.

If we are using an object literal here, to create the ref, it's just must more performance.

- Using Reflect & Proxy in Vue 3 allows us to add properties later that we want to be reactive, but what other benefits does this give us?

One is when you use proxies, the reactive conversion can be made lazy. In Vue2, when we do the conversion, we have to be eager because when you iterate passing the object to  Vue2's reactive equivalent, we have to iterate through all the keys, and convert them on the spot, so that later on, when they're accessed, they're already converted.

However with Vue3, the proxy, when you call reactive on an object, all we're doing is returning a proxy object. The nested objects are only converted as needed when you access them.

If your application has a huge list of objects, but with pagination, you are only rendering maybe the first 10 of them on the page, then only the first 10 of these objects will have to go through the reactive conversion.
