# Introduction to the Script Setup Syntax

While the evolution from Vue 3.1 to 3.2 was technically a minor version update, it comes with a major improvement in TypeScript experience. This new version of Vue promotes the Script Setup syntax, which was previously an experimental feature, and is now an officially supported one. With it, we have a simpler way to write components with the Composition API and a more elegant way of using TypeScript in our Vue apps.

```javaScript
// Composition API (original)
<script>
import { ref } from 'vue'

export default {
    setup() {
        const title = ref('Hello')
        return { title }
    }
}
</script>

// Composition API (with Script Setup)
<script setup>
import { ref } from 'vue'

const title = ref('Hello')
</script>
```

While the above snippets are in pure JavaScript, this simplicity carries over to the TypeScript side of Vue as well.

## TypeScript with Script Setup

Although the Script Setup syntax is just syntactic sugar for the Composition API, it gives us highly useful features to use when working with props and emits in TypeScript. Since the Script Setup syntax is still just the Composition API under the hood, we will still be writing most of our TypeScript code the same way as with the setup() function, such as creating ref, reactive, and functions. But the way that we’ll be using props and emit is very different in this new syntax.

So first, we’ll go through some TypeScript fundamentals for working with the Composition API, and then we’ll get into the new TypeScript features of the Script Setup syntax. The goal is to provide a well-rounded tour of the Vue-TypeScript combination that features the newest recommended practices.

Throughout the article, we’ll be covering the following topics:

- ref
- reactive
- type inference
- functions
- props
- emit