# Reactive Variables with Type Inference

In this lesson, we’ll start using TypeScript with ref() and reactive(). Type inference is a main theme when working with reactive variables. We’ll go through some general patterns and caveats on creating reactivie variables with/without type inference.

## Reactive variables (with type inference)

Inside the <script> tag, we can now use ref() directly as if we’re still inside the setup() function:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">
import { ref } frpm 'vue'

const count = ref(0)

</script>

```

Everything about ref and reactive is still the same, including type inference.

The code that we have here looks just like plain old JavaScript because the type of this variable is inferred.

Type inference is a huge part of using TypeScript. It will guess the type of the variable by just looking at the value you pass into the ref function. So even if you don’t specify the variable’s type, your IDE will still be able to show you the type info when you put your cursor over the variable.

Just like ref(), we can still use reactive() the same way as in the original Composition API syntax:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">
import { ref } frpm 'vue'

const count = ref(0)

const appInfo = reactive({
  name: 'Counter',
  slogan: 'an app you can count on'
})

</script>

```

## Template

Let’s render all of our variables in the template

```javaScript
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ appInfo.name }}</h1>
    <h2>{{ appInfo.slogan }}</h2>
  </div>
  <p>{{ count }}</p>
</template>
```

Even with the script setup syntax, we’re still writing template code the same way. Again, this is because the script setup syntax is still the Composition API, just under a different skin.

One subtle difference is that we didn’t have to return the appInfo and count from the setup() function because our code is not inside a function anymore.

Put your cursor on the count variable in the template, Volar will show you that its type is number not Ref<number>.

That’s because the template automatically “unpacks” the value of the Ref object.

Because of type inference, the code in this section looks just like JavaScript. (although it’s really TypeScript)

Next, we’ll write some TypeScript code that actually looks like TypeScript.

### New Convention of the Syntax

We should put the template below the script

## Beyond type inference

Even with type inference “autopiloting” for you, you can still annotate your variables whenever you feel like the extra annotations could enhance the readability of your code.

For example, the type of the appInfo variable will be inferred as { name: string; slogan: string; }.

Putting your cursor on the variable will show you its type:

If { name: string; slogan: string; } is too verbose for you, you might want to create a custom type for this:

```javaScript
interface AppInfo {
  name: string
  slogan: string
}

const appInfo: AppInfo = reactive({
  name: 'Counter',
  slogan: 'an app you can count on'
})
```

## Ref annotation

But manually specifying the type of a variable is not always so helpful.

For example, it’s common in a real app to fetch the initial value from an HTTP service via onMounted. So when we first declare the ref, we have to set its value to null:

```javaScript
// CHANGE
const count = ref(null)

// NEW
onMounted(() => {
  fetchCount((initialCount) => {
    count.value = initialCount
  })
})
```

This code wouldn’t work in TypeScript because our count variable has the type Ref<null> (guessed by TypeScript’s type inference). That means this Ref object can only be set with null as its value. Setting it to initialCount, which is a number, will make TypeScript scream at you.

To solve this problem, we have to specify our intended type (number | null) through the generic argument of ref():

```javaScript
// CHANGE
const count = ref<number | null>(null)

onMounted(() => {
  fetchCount((initialCount) => {
    count.value = initialCount
  })
})
```

We are basically telling TypeScript that this Ref object can be set with either a number or null as its value.

Now TypeScript is happy again.

As a less common alternative, we can also specify the type info of this ref on the left side of the assignment:

```javaScript
const count: Ref<number | null> = ref(null)
```

But we would have to import the Ref type, which is more typing to get the same result. I’m showing this option here so you know that it’s possible to do it this way, but it’s just less intuitive.

The general principle when working with TypeScript is to let type inference do its work, and only step in when type inference is not enough.

Aside from the use cases that we’ve gone through, there are more places where we would need to manually specify the type info, such as in functions.
