# Typing Your Callback Functions

Just like reactive variables, callback functions can also be easily inferred. In this lesson, we’ll explore the various ways to use functions in TypeScript with the help of type inference.

## Functions

Let’s add a button that triggers a function on click:

```javaScript
function addCount() {
  if (count.value !== null) {
    count.value += 1
  }
}

<template>
  ...
  <p>
    <button @click="addCount">Add</button>
  </p>
<template>
```

TypeScript won’t complain about this addCount function.

But what if we want to pass a number to the function as a parameter?

```javaScript
function addCount(num) {
  if (count.value !== null) {
    count.value += num
  }
}

<template>
  ...
  <p>
    <button @click="addCount(1)">Add</button>
  </p>
<template>
```

This situation is too ambiguous for type inference to guess what the type of this parameter should be, so TypeScript will use any as the type for num. Depending on your tsconfig.json, TypeScript might scream at you.

To improve the code, we simply need to annotate the parameter with its intended type:

```javaScript
function addCount(num: number) {
  if (count.value !== null) {
    count.value += num
  }
}
```

Now TypeScript is happy again.

## Type inference for function return

Notice that we’ve only been talking about the parameter type of a function. What about the return type of a function?

Function return is easily inferred by TypeScript.

For example, when we’re using computed:

```javaScript
const nextCount = computed(() => {
  if (count.value !== null) {
    return count.value + 1
  }
  return null
})
```

Since TypeScript knows that count.value is a number, a number + 1 is still just a number. Type inference is smart enough to figure that out by itself.

So there’s no need to manually specify the return type of the function.

## Type inference for inline function

You might have noticed that we didn’t specify the type of the parameter in our fetchCount callback earlier:

```javaScript
fetchCount((initialCount) => {
  count.value = initialCount
})
```

How is this callback function different from our addCount function?

In short, type inference is able to infer the parameter type if the function is used as an inline callback function.

For a more elaborate explanation, let’s do a little experiment.

Extract the callback function to its own variable:

```javaScript
const cb = (initialCount) => {
  count.value = initialCount
}

fetchCount(cb)
```

Depending on your tsconfig, the compiler might start screaming about initialCount needing an explicit type.

Basically, type inference can only make its best guess when the callback function is passed inline to fetchCount. TypeScript knows what fetchCount accepts as a parameter, so it just “connects the dots.” But if the callback function is defined beforehand, TypeScript wouldn’t be able to connect those dots because it has no idea where you would use this function and you could have used it in multiple places as a callback function.

Once again, type inference will work effectively if the callback is passed inline like this:

```javaScript
fetchCount((initialCount) => {
  count.value = initialCount
})
```
