# Props with Compiler Macros

## Props

In this lesson, we’ll look at the most important change in the script setup syntax, the new way of defining props and setting their default values.

Before we can demonstrate how to create props, we need to break our App component into two so that we can pass props from one to the other.

Let’s extract the counting logic and its related template code to a new component:

```javaScript

<script setup lang="ts">
import { ref, onMounted } from 'vue'
import fetchCount from '../services/fetchCount'

const count = ref<number | null>(null)

onMounted(() => {
  fetchCount((initialCount) => {
    count.value = initialCount
  })
})

function addCount(num: number) {
  if (count.value !== null) {
    count.value += num
  }
}

</script>

<template>
  <p>{{ count }}</p>
  <p>
    <button @click="addCount(1)">Add</button>
  </p>
</template>
```

Here’s the App component after importing and using the Counter component:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">
import { reactive } from 'vue'
import Counter from './components/Counter.vue'

interface AppInfo {
  name: string
  slogan: string
}

const appInfo: AppInfo = reactive({
  name: 'Counter',
  slogan: 'an app you can count on'
})

</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ appInfo.name }}</h1>
    <h2>{{ appInfo.slogan }}</h2>
  </div>
  <Counter></Counter>
</template>
```

Now, let’s make the Counter component accept two props:

- limit (the highest number the counter can go up to)
- alertMessageOnLimit (the string message that we’ll show when the count can’t go up anymore)

In the script setup syntax, we have to use the defineProps function:

```javaScript
const props = defineProps<{
  limit: number,
  alertMessageOnLimit: string
}>()
```

We’re defining the type of each prop item using pure TypeScript annotations. Note that we’re passing the object type through the angular brackets, not the parentheses. That means we’re passing it into the function as a generic argument type.

defineProps is a function called a compiler macro. There are a few other compiler macros we’ll talk about soon. These functions are only called during compile-time; they won’t appear in your runtime code. That’s why we didn’t have to import them before using them. These compile-time functions can only be used within <script setup>.

A common gotcha here is attempting to destructure props, which causes loss of reactivity.

```javaScript
const { limit, alertMessageOnLimit } = defineProps<{
  limit: number,
  alertMessageOnLimit: string
}>()
```

However, the Vue team is working on accommodating this. So this may not be an issue by the time you’re reading this tutorial.

But for code clarity, we’ll still be using the props variable through this tutorial:

```javaScript
const props = defineProps<{
  limit: number,
  alertMessageOnLimit: string
}>()
```

## Function argument

As an alternative, we can still pass the traditional props config object into the defineProps as a function argument (through the parentheses this time, not the angular brackets):

```javaScript
const props = defineProps({
  limit: { type: Number, required true },
  alertMessageOnLimit: { type: String, required: true }
})
```

But be warned that these are not TypeScript annotations, the Number type and the String type are all capitalized. (the TypeScript counterparts are all lowercase)

So to recap, defineProps offers two ways to define the types of our props, using a generic type argument and using a function argument.

Generic type argument:

```javaScript
const props = defineProps<{
  limit: number,
  alertMessageOnLimit: string
}>()
```

Function argument:

```javaScript
const props = defineProps({
  limit: { type: Number, required: true },
  alertMessageOnLimit: { type: String, required: true }
})
```

Both of these methods will provide you with static type checking for your props. But the generic type argument is in pure TypeScript, and that’s also the recommended method, so we’ll be sticking with that.

We can also create an interface for the type argument:

```javaScript
interface Props {
  limit: number
  alertMessageOnLimit: string
}

const props = defineProps<Props>()
```

This makes the code easier to read, and it makes it easier to set up default values (as we’ll see in a bit).

Next, let’s use the two new props in the logic:

```javaScript
function addCount(num: number) {
  if (count.value !== null) {
    if (count.value >= props.limit) {
      alert(props.alertMessageOnLimit)
    }
    else {
      count.value += num
    }
  }
}
```

This will cap the count at a certain number, and it will alert the user when they try to add beyond that number.

Now back in the parent component, you should see that TypeScript is currently screaming at you for not passing in the required props:

This is a good thing, and that’s the power of static type checking.

To fix this, we just have to set the props on the element:

```javaScript
<template>
  ...
  <Counter 
    :limit="10" 
    :alert-message-on-limit="'can not go any higher'"
  ></Counter>
</template>
```

Now TypeScript is happy again.

Another benefit of using defineProps with generic type argument is that it offers a cleaner way to define default values. We’ll look at how to do that next.

## Default Prop Value

To define a default value for a prop, we have to first make that prop optional in the interface:

```javaScript
interface Props {
  limit: number
  alertMessageOnLimit?: string
}
```

Here, we’re making alertMessageOnLimit optional.

Next, we have to use another function called withDefaults to define the actual default value for alertMessageOnLimit:

```javaScript
const props = withDefaults(defineProps<Props>(), {
  alertMessageOnLimit: 'can not go any higher'
})
```

We’re using withDefaults and defineProps in a function composition pattern, that is, putting the defineProps function call inside withDefaults as an argument. And setting up the default value of alertMessageOnLimit in an object literal as the second argument.

Now back in the parent component, we have the choice to not pass in alertMessageOnLimit:

```javaScript
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ appInfo.name }}</h1>
    <h2>{{ appInfo.slogan }}</h2>
  </div>
  <Counter 
    :limit="10"
  ></Counter>
</template>
```

And Counter will just opt for the default message that we’ve specified.
