# Type-Safe Emit

## Emit

Just like props, emit has a total makeover in the script setup syntax. In this lesson, we’ll pick up another compiler macro for working emit.

To demonstrate the new annotation syntax for emits, let’s first extract the button into a new component that can emit a custom event:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">
</script>

<template>
  <p>
    <button @click="addCount(1)">Add</button>
  </p>
</template>
```

To define the events that we’re allowed to emit from this component, we have to use the defineEmits function:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">

const emit = defineEmits<{ 
  (event: 'add-count', num: number): void 
}>()

</script>
```

Technically, this is an object type with call signature.

We can add additional call signature inside the object type:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">

const emit = defineEmits<{ 
  (event: 'add-count', num: number): void 
  (event: 'reset-count'): void 
}>()

</script>
```

What this means is that emit will be a function that can act as either of those two call signatures.

The add-count event will be emitted with a payload called num, and the reset-count event has no payload.

Next, we have to modify the template to emit these events:

```javaScript
<template>
  <p>
    <button @click="emit('add-count', 1)">Add</button>
    <button @click="emit('reset-count')">Reset</button>
  </p>
</template>
```

Notice that when we emit, we are doing so with the event name as the first parameter, just like the call signatures we specified. And we’re passing in any additional parameters as required by each event.

If we didn’t specify the reset-count event with defineEmits, we wouldn’t be able to emit it in our component:

And if we were to emit the wrong event name, it would scream at us, too:

Once again, that’s the power of static type checking.

To complete the event handling cycle, we have to go back to the parent component Counter.vue and register a callback function for the add-count event:

```javaScript
<template>
  <p>{{ count }}</p>
  <AddButton @add-count="foo"></AddButton>
</template>
```

If you put your cursor on @add-count, it will show you the type of function that can be used as a callback for the add-count event

Notice that the bottom box (the Volar box) says (num: number) => void, and our addCount function fits this description.

Now you might be wondering… Where does this (num: number) => void thing come from?

It’s actually derived from the defineEmits type argument that we set up earlier.

This one:

```javaScript
<script setup lang="ts">

const emit = defineEmits<{ 
  (event: 'add-count', num: number): void 
  (event: 'reset-count'): void 
}>()

</script>
```

So Vue took the (event: 'add-count', num: number): void part and stripped away the event parameter. That gives us the (num: number) => void type for our add-count event.
