# Props: Custom Validation

## The Shortcomings of Most Prop Definitions

In the last lesson, we learned how to create props that were well documented and helped to prevent common bugs. However, after cleaning up our props in the last lesson, you might have noticed that our image prop is a little bit lacking.

 BaseBanner.vue

```javaScript
export default {
  props: {
    image: {
      type; String,
      default: '/images/placeholder.png' 
    }
  }
}
```

While we have a default placeholder image that will help us when movie poster images are missing, the simple data-type-checking of String doesn’t quite cover it when it comes to validation. Simply passing any string won’t suffice; a simple error would result in a broken image.

- /images/movie-poster.pn
- /imagesmovie-poster.png
- images/movie-poster.png

For our MoviePoster component, beyond simply enforcing that the image prop is a String, let’s assume that we want to make sure that:

1. Images live in the /images directory
2. Images can only be PNG or JPEG format

When given these requirements, the first instinct might be to create a computed property that checks for these things and generates an error message if it fails. However, what if we could validate our props earlier than that? Let’s explore how we can do this with custom validations!

## Custom Validation for Props

While creating custom validations for props sounds complicated initially, Vue makes it quite easy for us to do so by providing the __validator__ property. Here are the basics behind how it works:

MoviePoster.vue

```javaScript
export default {
  props: {
    image: {
      type: String,
      default: '/images/placeholder.png',
      // Validator takes an anonymous function 
      // that receives the passed-down value
      // as its first argument
      validator: propValue => {
        // Return a Boolean that will serve as your validation
        const propExists = propValue.length > 0

 return propExists
      }  
    }
  }
}
```

So for this example, this prop simply checks the length of the string to make sure that it's greater than zero

Equipped with this knowledge, let’s apply this to our images prop from our MoviePoster scenario!

 MoviePoster.vue

 ```javaScript
export default {
  props: {
    image: {
      type: String,
      default: '/images/placeholder.png' 
    }
  }
}
```
