# The Problem with Props

## Introduction

Props are an incredibly useful technique when it comes to passing data down to child components. However, as an application scales and components get bigger, relying solely on props can often end up creating more problems than one might realize. In this lesson, you will learn the trade-offs that often come with a props heavy component and get a glimpse into an alternative technique every Vue developer should have in their toolkit.

## Scenario: A “Simple” Button Component

A “button” component is universal amongst all applications. At first glance, most developers would probably say that buttons are incredibly simple, as far as components go.

Let’s put that to the test by playing a little mental puzzle game, originally designed by core team member Damian Dulisz, where we build a base button component from scratch. The rules of the game are simple:

1. You will be given a new requirement each round that builds on the past one(s)
2. Imagine what the template block will look like in BaseButton.vue and App.vue
3. All styles are provided by a separately defined CSS classes (i.e., .button, .icon, etc.)

Ready to play? Let’s start!

## Requirement #1: Display Custom Text

To start, the button needs to be able to display any custom text specified by the parent component.

## Requirement #2: Display Icon to the Right

For this round, in addition to the custom text from the parent component, you can assume that you have a <app-icon :icon="iconName" /> component that you can use inside of your base button component.

## Round #3: Display Icons on Either Side

Rather than solely displaying the icon on the right side of the text, the button must also account for:

- Icon on the left side
- Icon on the right side
- Icon on both sides

## Requirement #4: Replace Content with a Loading Spinner

When a user clicks a button, it sometimes needs to fetch data from an external API service and needs to inform the user that it’s in the process of retrieving that data.

Assuming you have a <LoadingSpinner /> component, the button now also needs to be able to replace the entire content of the button with the loading spinner based on its state.

## Requirement #5: Only Replace Icon with a Loading Spinner

On some pages, the designer would prefer to switch out the button text to “Loading” and swap out the icon with the <LoadingSpinner /> component in order to provide more context to the user.

## A Common Descent into Props Madness

When you first started the exercise, you (and most developers) most likely started with a simple solution resembling something as follows:

App.vue

```javaScript
<template>
  <h1>My App</h1>
  <BaseButton text="Submit" />
</template>
```

BaseButton.vue

```javaScript
<template>
  <button class="button">
    {{ text }}
  </button>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  props: {
    text: {
      type: String,
      required: true
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

However, as each requirement continued to build on one another, it wasn’t long before it looked something like this instead:

App.vue

```javaScript
<template>
  <h1>My App</h1>
  <BaseButton 
    text="Submit" 
    :isLoading="loading"
    iconLeftName="left-arrow"
    iconRightName="right-arrow"
    :isLoadingLeft="loadingLeft"
    :isLoadingRight="loadingRight"
  />
</template>
```

BaseButton.vue

```javaScript
<template>
  <button type="button" class=“nice-button“>
    <LoadingSpinner v-if="isLoading" />
    <template v-else>
      <template v-if="iconLeftName">
        <LoadingSpinner v-if="isLoadingLeft" />
        <AppIcon v-else :icon=“iconLeftName” />
      </template>
      {{ text }}
      <template v-if="iconRightName">
        <LoadingSpinner v-if="isLoadingRight" />
        <AppIcon v-else :icon=“iconRightName” />
      </template>
    </template>
  </button>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  // Props shortened to Array syntax for brevity
  props: [
    'text', 
    'iconLeftName', 
    'iconRightName', 
    'isLoading', 
    'isLoadingLeft', 
    'isLoadingRight'
  ]
}
</script>
```
I don’t know about you, but I got pretty dizzy trying to hold all of that in my head!