# [Setup & Testing like a User](https://www.vuemastery.com/courses/real-world-testing/setup-&-testing-like-a-user)

## What should we be testing?

### Make decisions based on 2 factors

1. How critical is the component's code?

   So what is the most critical feature that needs to work? This website’s primary job is to present information about what the Events for Good in both the Event’s list and detail view. It also supports the creation of new events. Both features are important.

2. How easy is it to write the component's test?

    Components that have few dependencies and are self-contained without side-effects will be very easy to test.

    However, if the component has many dependencies, such as Vuex, Vue Router, or Axios, then it will be very difficult to test. If testing the component becomes very difficult, then you may not need to component-test it. Instead, you can achieve code coverage for that part of the code by way of end-to-end or integration testing. We will not cover end-to-end tests in this course, but once we implement the component tests, you will understand why end-to-end tests may be more appropriate for complex page-level components.

## Testing the EventCard

1. Once we add an event, the test passes, but we get a warning. This is because the Root Vue instance created by Vue Test Utils does not have the router setup, therefor router-link does not exist.

2. Under the hood, Vue Test Utils spawns a new root Vue instance. This is equivalent to calling the createApp method in main.js — in main.js we use the store and router. Because we are not doing this inside of the test, the root vue application instance does not know what router-link is. The reason Vue Test Utils does this is to prevent tests leaking into each other.

3. There are multiple strategies to fix this, and we will discuss a newly available one called mock-vue-router in the next lesson.

4. The simplest solution is to remove router-link as a dependency of EventCard.

5.To do this, we will “push the functionality up” into the EventList by refactoring the EventCard.

6. With this very simple change, we have removed the router dependency from EventCard and when we re-run npm run test:unit the component mounts correctly

## Writing resilient assertions

Writing resilient assertions is easy compared to mounting the component. Now, the EventCard has a single job: Rendering the event’s data. Again, let’s put ourselves in the user’s shoes. The user needs to know:

1. What the event is
2. What day it’s happening
3. What time it starts

If this key information is on the component, the component is doing its job.

The only time this test should break is if the event’s data is not displayed within the component.

The contract (or public API) of the EventCard is that the Event prop is rendered on the page.

This means that

The component’s style is not important.
The DOM structure of the component is an implementation detail.

With those requirements in mind, we can start to find and assert on the data in the component.

1. After mounting the component, we can check that the HTML renders the component’s data.

```javaScript
import { mount } from '@vue/test-utils' // we'll use this soon!
import EventCard from '@/components/EventCard'

describe('EventCard', () => {
  it(`renders the event's data successfully`, () => {
    const event = {
      id: 1,
      time: '12:00PM',
      date: 'September 29th, 2022',
      title: 'Coaching Little League'
    }
    
    const wrapper = mount(EventCard, {
      props: {
        event
      },
    })

    const wrapperHtml = wrapper.html()
    expect(wrapperHtml).toContain(event.date)
    expect(wrapperHtml).toContain(event.time)
    expect(wrapperHtml).toContain(event.title)
  })
})
```

1. You’ll notice we’re caching the HTML. We could have written our assertions like:

```javaScript
expect(wrapper.html()).toContain(event.time) // 
expect(wrapper.html()).toContain(...)
```

1. However, it is best practice to avoid unnecessary queries of the DOM. Caching the wrapper’s html in a variable will lead to faster tests. Just like in the browser, querying the DOM can be expensive. This does not make a difference in our small example, but it is a best practice.

2. Another best practice is to re-use your mock data in your assertions instead of copying the mock over to the assertion. This way, when you change your event’s data, you do not need to update your tests.

3. Let’s run our test a final time to ensure that they’re working before moving on.
