# Mocking Vuex Stores

At the end of this lesson, we’ll have learned how to:

1. Test complex components that rely on Vue and Vuex
2. Refactor our Vuex stores to be testable
3. Mock initial test state in Vuex
4. Re-use mock data from a fixture file such as db.json
5. Simplify our tests with reusable mount functions
6. Write complex tests using the “Setup ⇒ Find ⇒ Interact ⇒ Assert” framework
7. Use data-testid to rely on resilient, markup-agnostic selectors

## Introduction

Welcome back to the third lesson of Real World Testing. In this lesson, we’ll learn how to test components that depend on Vuex and Vue Router. At the end of this lesson, we’ll have learned how to mock dependencies like Vuex and Vue Router within our tests, organize our tests, using the setup, find, interact, and assert format and use the data test ID selector to target elements.

## Assessing the Application

Currently our events application contains one test for the EventCard component.

Last lesson, this component was refactored to be presentational, meaning it only focuses on displaying data rather than fetching the data itself or maintaining any of its own data. It is also decoupled from the applications Vuex and Vue Router plugs.

Now, we must also test the EventList to ensure that the entire list of our events is being rendered correctly.

## Mounting the EventList for the first time (Mock Vuex and Vue Router)

Let’s begin by looking at the code for EventList to review what we learned last lesson. Mounting the component is the hardest part of testing, and once we determine how to make a component testable, writing the assertions is easy.

The first step is to list out the environmental dependencies and public API.

1. The event list depends on Vuex and Vue Router
2. Note that there are no props passed in.

This means we need to mock out the methods the component depends on to get it to render. All of this work must be done before we are able to mount our component at all.

Ideally, we would make EventList testable by passing the state in as an initial test-only property. Sometimes, especially in complex applications, this is not possible without a lot of work. In this course, we focus on testing real-world applications. And so at this point we won’t be refactoring our component to make it more testable.

Instead we’ll focus on testing the component as it is. The first step when testing a new component is to create a new file, a describe block, an it block, and an assertion.

```javaScript
describe('EventList', () => {
  it('should render the events', () => {
    expect(true).toBe(true)
  })
})
```

We’ll run that test to make sure everything is configured correctly.

```javaScript
yarn test:unit # or npm run test:unit
```

We’ll see that two tests have passed: our new test and the test that we wrote last lesson. Then we’ll import the component and then import mount from Vue’s Test Utils. Then we’ll try to mount the EventList component with Vue’s Test Utils to set up the test.

```javaScript
import { mount } from '@vue/test-utils'
import EventList from '@views/EventList'

describe('EventList', () => {
  it('should render the events', () => {
    mount(EventList) // <- This will fail
  })
})
```

After we set up the test, we’ll be able to find, interact and assert on the EventList. But first we have to do the difficult part of setting up the component.

Now let’s run the tests.

## Mocking Vuex

The first failure we see as related to Vuex.

The error message tells us that this.$store is undefined. Now, Vuex is a plugin injected into the Vue application and to understand how our application’s Vuex store is set up, you can look inside of the main.js file. And it looks like main.js uses “store” and “router” as plugins, and they’re imported from their relative files.

The store is imported from store/index.js. The store file exports a store instance from the create store factory function. We’re passing in an initial configuration and then exporting the initialized store. Now to get our error to go away, we need to inject this initialized store into our component under test.

We’ll import the store, just like our main.js file does. Then we’ll use the globals option inside of mount and pass in the store as a plugin.

Now let’s use the same strategy for Vue Router. We’ll import the router and add it to our plugins, just like we did for the store.

```javaScript
import { mount } from '@vue/test-utils'
import EventList from '@views/EventList'
import store from '@/store'
import router from '@/router'

describe('EventList', () => {
  it('should render the events', () => {
    mount(EventList, {
      global: {
        plugins: [store, router]
      }
    })
  })
})
```

## Mount’s “global” Options

Now what is global anyway Well, Vue Test Utils exposes a global object to allow users to pass things like:

1. Global plugins
2. Registered components
3. Providers
4. Directives
5. Mocks
6. Stubs
7. …and more.

Many of these properties would have been initialized in Vue’s createApp method, but because Vue Test Utils calls createApp under the hood, it exposes an API to allow users to set those values via configuration.

```javaScript
import { mount } from '@vue/test-utils'
import EventList from '@views/EventList'
import store from '@/store'
import router from '@/router'

describe('EventList', () => {
  it('should render the events', () => {
    const wrapper = mount(EventList, {
      global: {
        plugins: [store, router]
      }
    })
    expect(wrapper.exists()).toBeTruthy()
  })
})
```
If we run our test again, we’ll see that it works!